Tutorials - update property filter app tutorial (#10059)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/tutorials/property-filter.md

Reviewer: Similar to the docs, do we want to include a section on the `sanitize_properties` `posthog-js` function?

  - configuration
  - data management
  - product os
date: 2024-12-05
---

> _Estimated reading time: 2 minutes_ ☕

Reviewer: We can probably remove this too

> When collecting data with PostHog, you may sometimes want to avoid collecting certain properties for privacy reasons. For example, you may want to ensure you never collect specific kind of data such as IP addresses or exact locations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When collecting data with PostHog, you may sometimes want to avoid collecting certain properties for privacy reasons. For example, you may want to ensure you never collect data like IP addresses or exact locations.
```

> When collecting data with PostHog, you may sometimes want to avoid collecting certain properties for privacy reasons. For example, you may want to ensure you never collect specific kind of data such as IP addresses or exact locations.

Reviewer: We can do slightly less hedging. 
```suggestion
When collecting data with PostHog, you may want to avoid collecting certain properties for privacy reasons. For example, you may want to ensure you never collect IP addresses or exact locations.
```

> That's where the [Property Filter app](/apps/property-filter), which was created by the team at [Witty Works](https://www.witty.works/), comes in. It gives you fine-grained control over which properties are kept or discarded from your events, helping you balance data collection needs with privacy requirements. Here's how to use it:

Reviewer: Product names should be sentence case I think. 
```suggestion
That's where the [property filter app](/apps/property-filter), which was created by the team at [Witty Works](https://www.witty.works/), comes in. It gives you fine-grained control over which properties are kept or discarded from your events, helping you balance data collection needs with privacy requirements. Here's how to use it:
```

> ## How to set up the Property Filter app

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How to set up the property filter app
```

The property filter app works by setting the selected properties to `null` when events are ingested. Here's how to set it up:

> 1. Navigate to the [data pipeline](https://us.posthog.com/pipeline) tab in PostHog.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to the [data pipelines](https://us.posthog.com/pipeline) tab in PostHog.
```

This will change imminently lol:

https://github.com/PostHog/posthog/pull/26618

2. Click the **+ New** button in the top right.
3. Select **Transformation** from the dropdown.
4. Next to the **Property Filter** app, click **+ Create**.
5. Click **Enabled** to turn on the app.
6. Type the properties you want to filter out in the text field. Separate properties with commas, without using spaces, like so: `foo,bar,baz`.

<ProductVideo

>     videoLight= "https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/video/upload/property_light_6cf45cedd1.mp4" 

Reviewer 2: oh man we gotta record two videos?? 😂

| Google App-to-web Measure   | `$gbraid`                | `testGbraid123`                |
| Facebook Click ID           | `$fbclid`                | `testFbclid123`                |
| Microsoft Click ID          | `$msclkid`               | `testMsclkid123`               |
| Twitter Click ID            | `$twclid`                | `testTwclid123`                |
| LinkedIn Ad Tracking ID     | `$la_fat_id`             | `testLaFatId123`               |
| Mailchimp Campaign ID       | `$mc_cid`                | `testMcCid123`                 |
| Instagram Share Id          | `$igshid`                | `testIgshid123`                |
| TikTok Click ID             | `$ttclid`                | `testTtclid123`                |
| Plugins Succeeded           | `$plugins_succeeded`     | `['GeoIP (56578)']`            |
| Plugins Failed              | `$plugins_failed`        | `['plugin3']`                  |
| Plugins Deferred            | `$plugins_deferred`      | `['plugin4']`                  |
| IP Address                  | `$ip`                    | `192.168.1.1`                  |

### Filtering GeoIP properties

> PostHog enriches events with the [GeoIP app](/cdp/geoip-enrichment) based on the IP address. You either disable this app completely or filter out specific properties using the Property Filter app.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
PostHog enriches events with the [GeoIP app](/cdp/geoip-enrichment) based on the IP address. You can either disable this app completely or filter out specific properties using the Property Filter app.
```

> PostHog enriches events with the [GeoIP app](/cdp/geoip-enrichment) based on the IP address. You either disable this app completely or filter out specific properties using the Property Filter app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PostHog enriches events with the [GeoIP app](/cdp/geoip-enrichment) based on the IP address. You either disable this app completely or filter out specific properties using the property filter app.
```

The current list of GeoIP properties is shown below. For the most up-to-date list, see the [source code](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog-plugin-geoip).

- $geoip_city_name
- $geoip_country_name
- $geoip_country_code
- $geoip_continent_name
- $geoip_continent_code
- $geoip_latitude
- $geoip_longitude
- $geoip_time_zone
- $geoip_subdivision_1_code
- $geoip_subdivision_1_name
- $geoip_subdivision_2_code
- $geoip_subdivision_2_name
- $geoip_subdivision_3_code

> - $geoip_subdivision_3_name

Reviewer: All need backticks?
